Add and remove element from an array

Create a cfml/html page to have a form with below elements.
1.Create three input fields to the html page with submit button.
2.First textbox/textarea to have a elements as input from user like a,b,c,d,e.
3.Second textbox to have the postion(numbers only) not zero.The position must start with 1.
4.Third textbox to have the new element for add the array.
5.A div next to the input box for show the validation.
6.A button next to the div for hit the action.

Actions & hints:
 While clicking on the button, You need to validate the form with below rules.
1.Enter the elements to the first textbox.
2.Enter the position to the second textbox and third textbox have the new element which is replace to the array.
3.If the validation passes, you need to replace the new element to the array to the mentioned position.
4.If the validation fails, Tell the reason in DOM rather than an alert to the user why it fails.

Validation rules:
Below things should be done in appropriate situation, while we try to submit the form. Validation messages should be displayed in a DOM element.. 
You shouldn't display the message in an alert..
- If the text field is empty, you need to display the message "Please enter a sentence".
- If there is any special characters available in the text field, you need to display the message "Special Character(s) not allowed".
- If there is any negative number available in the position field, you need to display the message "positive number only allowed".
- Multiple commas and multiple space should be converted into single comma and space Ex: A,,,,,,B,,,     C should be taken as A,B,C.
- Empty spaces in between commas should be omitted Ex:A, ,B,C and should be considered as A,B,C.
- Single string is not allowed as input. We need more string to process. Ex:A is not allowed, Input should be in A,B,C,D format.
- Position should be within given array range. If not, display a message like enter position between 1 to 5.